SQL Azure Scenario Refresh (#1212)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_sqlsrv/azure/azure_arm_template_winsrv/_index.md

## Prerequisites

- Clone the Azure Arc Jumpstart repository

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
    ```

> - [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.25.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.36.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.
```

> - [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.25.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.

Author: Done!

    git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
    ```

> - [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.26.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.36.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.
```

> 

Reviewer: The readme needs to follow the scenario write up guidelines. Just a few things I've noticed:
 
- Scenario should start with "The following scenario" not "The following readme"
- use dash instead of asterisk for bullets

Author: @dkirby-ms and I worked through this together on a call and have applied the necessary code changes.

    ```shell
    az login
    az account set --subscription "<Subscription ID>"
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role contributor --scopes /subscriptions/<Subscription ID>
    ```

    For example:

    ```shell
    az account set --subscription "xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxx"

>     az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "http://AzureArcServers" --role contributor --scopes /subscriptions "xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxx"

Reviewer: For this section, can we use the same language found in ArcBox readmes? For example, the SP name should not have http:// in front. There is also script code to automatically pull the subscription id.

Author: @dkirby-ms and I worked through this together on a call and have applied the necessary code changes.

The automation for this scenario includes 3 PowerShell scripts executed in the following order:

1. [*Bootstrap.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/scripts/Bootstrap.ps1) - Executed at ARM Template deployment time as a CustomScriptExtension. This script has the following functionalities:

    1. Download and install pre-requisite utilities via [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/).
    2. Download the [*LogonScript.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/scripts/LogonScript.ps1) and [*installArcAgentSQL.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/scripts/installArcAgentSQL.ps1) scripts.  

2. [*LogonScript.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/scripts/LogonScript.ps1) - Executed upon initial login to the SQL virtual machine. This script has the following functionalities:

    1. Install and configure SQL Server on the VM
    2. Restore AdventureWorksLT2019 Database

>     3. Allow Azure VM to be onboard to Azure Arc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Allow Azure VM to be onboarded to Azure Arc
```

    4. Execute the *installArcAgentSQL* script

3. [*installArcAgentSQL.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/scripts/installArcAgentSQL.ps1) - This is the main script and will be executed by the *LogonScript* script at VM runtime. This script has the following functionalities:

    1. Project SQL Server as an Azure Arc-enabled SQL server resource

>     2. Install Log Analytics agent using extension on Azure Arc server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Install Log Analytics agent using an extension on Azure Arc-enabled server
```

    3. Create SQL Assessment and inject data to Azure Log Analytics workspace

> For you to get familiar with the automation and deployment flow, below is an explanation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get familiar with the automation and deployment flow read the following explanation.
```

> 1. User is editing the ARM template parameters file (1-time edit). These parameters values are being used throughout the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. User edits the ARM template parameters file (1-time edit). These parameters values are used throughout the deployment.
```

> 2. The ARM template incl. an Azure VM Custom Script Extension which will deploy the the [*Bootstrap.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/scripts/Bootstrap.ps1) PowerShell Script. The script will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The ARM template includes an Azure VM Custom Script Extension which will deploy the [*Bootstrap.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/scripts/Bootstrap.ps1) PowerShell Script. The script will:
```

    1. Download the *LogonScript.ps1* and *installArcAgentSQL* PowerShell scripts

    2. Set local OS environment variables

## Deployment

> As mentioned, this deployment will use an ARM Template. You will deploy a single template, responsible for creating all the Azure resources in a single resource group as well onboarding the created VM to Azure Arc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned, this deployment will use an ARM Template. You will deploy a single template that creates all the Azure resources in a single resource group as well as onboarding the created VM to Azure Arc.
```

## Azure SQL Assessment

Now that you have both the server and SQL projected as Azure Arc resources the last step is to complete the initiation of the SQL Assessment run.

- On the SQL Azure Arc resource click on "Environment Health", then click "Download configuration script".

    Since the *installArcAgentSQL* run in the deployment step took care of deploying and installing the required binaries you can safely ignore and delete the downloaded *AddSqlAssessment.ps1* file.

    Clicking the "Download configuration script" will simply send a REST API call to the Azure portal which will make "Step3" available and will result with a grayed-out "View SQL Assessment Results" button.

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./arc_sql_resource_portal.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./environment_health_button.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./download_script_button.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./view_assessment_disabled.png)

>     It might take a bit of time, but after approximately 45-60min you will notice how the "View SQL Assessment Results" becomes available for you to click on. At this point the SQL assessment data and logs are getting injected to Azure Log Analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It might take a bit of time, but after approximately 45-60 minutes you will notice how the "View SQL Assessment Results" becomes available for you to click on. At this point the SQL assessment data and logs are getting injected to Azure Log Analytics.
```

> * The deployment is using the ARM template parameters file. Before initiating the deployment, edit the [*azuredeploy.parameters.json*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/azuredeploy.parameters.json) file located in your local cloned repository folder. An example parameters file is located [here](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/azuredeploy.parameters.example.json).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The deployment uses the ARM template parameters file. Before initiating the deployment, edit the [*azuredeploy.parameters.json*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/azuredeploy.parameters.json) file located in your local cloned repository folder. An example parameters file is located [here](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/azuredeploy.parameters.example.json).
```

> * Create a Resource Group which will house the target for the ARM Template deployment using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a Resource Group which will contain the target for the ARM Template deployment using the following command:
```

    ```shell
    az group create --name <Name of the Azure resource group> --location <Azure Region> --tags "Project=jumpstart_azure_arc_sql"
    ```

    For example:

    ```shell
    az group create --name Arc-SQL-Demo --location "East US" --tags "Project=jumpstart_azure_arc_sql"
    ```

> * To deploy the ARM template, navigate to the local cloned [deployment folder](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/tree/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template) and run the below command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To deploy the ARM template, navigate to the local cloned [deployment folder](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/tree/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template) and run the following command:
```

    ```shell
    az deployment group create \
    --resource-group <Name of the Azure resource group> \
    --name <The name of this deployment> \
    --template-uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/azure_arc/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/arm_template/azuredeploy.json \
    --parameters <The *azuredeploy.parameters.json* parameters file location>
    ```

>     > **Note: Make sure that you are using the same Azure resource group name as the one you created in the previous step**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note: Make sure that you are using the same Azure resource group name as the one you created in the previous step.**
```

> * Once Azure resources has been provisioned, you will be able to see it in Azure portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once Azure resources have been provisioned you will be able to see them in Azure portal.
```

    ![Screenshot showing ARM deployment](./deployment_complete_cli.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Azure Portal with Azure resources](./deployment_complete_portal.png)

## Windows Login & Post Deployment

> * Now that the Windows Server VM has been deployed, it is time to login to it. Using it's public IP, RDP to the VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once the Windows Server VM has been deployed, it is time to login to it. Use RDP to access the VM using the VM's public IP
```

    ![Screenshot showing Overview tab of Azure VM](./sql_vm_portal.png)

> * At first login, as mentioned in the "Automation Flow" section, a logon script will get executed. This script was created as part of the automated deployment process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* At first login a logon script will get executed. This script was created as part of the automated deployment process.
```

    Let the script to run its course and **do not close** the PowerShell session, this will be done for you once completed.

>     > **Note: The script run time is ~30min long**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note: The script run time is approximately 30min long**
```

    ![Screenshot showing PowerShell script executing in VM](./post_deploy_script.png)

> * Upon successful run, in the Azure portal, notice you now have a new Azure Arc-enabled server (with the Microsoft Monitoring agent installed via an extension) and Azure Arc-enabled SQL resources as well as Azure Log Analytics added to the resource group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After a successful run you can see in the Azure portal that there is now a new Azure Arc-enabled server (with the Microsoft Monitoring agent installed via an extension), Azure Arc-enabled SQL resources and Azure Log Analytics added to the resource group.
```

    ![Screenshot showing Azure Arc-enabled SQL resources](./post_deployment_portal_vm.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Azure Arc-enabled SQL resources](./post_deployment_portal_arc.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Azure Arc-enabled SQL resources](./post_deployment_portal_arc_sql.png)

> * Open Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (a Windows shortcut will be created for you) and validate the *AdventureWorksLT2019* sample database is deployed as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Open Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio (a Windows shortcut will be created for you) and validate the *AdventureWorksLT2019* sample database is deployed.
```

    ![Screenshot showing SQL Management Studio](./sql_server_management_login.png)

    ![Screenshot showing SQL Management Studio](./sql_server_management_data.png)

## Azure SQL Assessment

> Now that you have both the server and SQL projected as Azure Arc resources, the last step is complete the initiation of the SQL Assessment run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have both the server and SQL projected as Azure Arc resources the last step is to complete the initiation of the SQL Assessment run.
```

> * On the SQL Azure Arc resource, click on "Environment Health" followed by clicking the "Download configuration script".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On the SQL Azure Arc resource click on "Environment Health", then click "Download configuration script".
```

>     Since the *installArcAgentSQL* run in the deployment step took care of deploying and installing the required binaries, you can safely ignore and delete the downloaded *AddSqlAssessment.ps1* file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Since the *installArcAgentSQL* run in the deployment step took care of deploying and installing the required binaries you can safely ignore and delete the downloaded *AddSqlAssessment.ps1* file.
```

    Clicking the "Download configuration script" will simply send a REST API call to the Azure portal which will make "Step3" available and will result with a grayed-out "View SQL Assessment Results" button.

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./arc_sql_resource_portal.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./environment_health_button.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./download_script_button.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./view_assessment_disabled.png)

>     It might take a bit of time, but after ~45-60min you will notice how the "View SQL Assessment Results" becomes available for you to click on. At this point, the SQL assessment data and logs are getting injected to Azure Log Analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It might take a bit of time, but after approximately 45-60min you will notice how the "View SQL Assessment Results" becomes available for you to click on. At this point the SQL assessment data and logs are getting injected to Azure Log Analytics.
```

>     Initially, the amount of data will be limited as it take a while for the assessment to complete a full cycle but after few hours you should be able to see much more data coming in.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Initially the amount of data will be limited as it take a while for the assessment to complete a full cycle but after few hours you should be able to see much more data coming in.  
```

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./view_assessment_enabled.png)

    ![Screenshot showing Environment Health blade of Azure Arc-enabled SQL server](./sql_assessment_results.png)

## Cleanup

> To delete the entire deployment, simply delete the resource group from the Azure portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete the entire deployment simply delete the resource group from the Azure portal.
```
